This planet has—or rather had—a problem, which was this: most of the people living on it were unhappy for pretty much all of the time.
|Many were increasingly of the opinion that they'd all made a big mistake in coming down from the trees in the first place. And some said that even the trees had been a bad move, and that no one should ever have left the oceans.
|In many of the more relaxed civilizations on the Outer Eastern Rim of the Galaxy, the Hitchhiker's Guide has already supplanted the great Encyclopaedia Galactica as the standard repository of all knowledge and wisdom, for though it has many omissions and contains much that is apocryphal, or at least wildly inaccurate, it scores over the older, more pedestrian work in two important respects.
First, it is slightly cheaper; and secondly it has the words 'DON'T PANIC' inscribed in large friendly letters on its cover.
|"But the plans were on display . . ."
"On display? I eventually had to go down to the cellar to find them."
"That's the display department."
"With a torch."
"Ah, well the lights had probably gone."
"So had the stairs."
"But look, you found the notice, didn't you?"
"Yes," said Arthur, "yes I did. It was on display in the bottom of a locked filing cabinet stuck in a disused lavatory with a sign on the door saying 'Beware of the Leopard'."
|The best drink in existence is the Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster. It says that the effect of a Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster is like having your brains smashed out by a slice of lemon wrapped round a large gold brick.
|"Time is an illusion. Lunchtime doubly so."
|"This must be Thursday," said Arthur to himself, sinking low over his beer, "I never could get the hang of Thursdays."
|Any man that can hitch the length and breadth of the Galaxy, rough it, slum it, struggle against terrible odds, win through and still know where his towel is, is clearly a man to be reckoned with.
|"Hey, you sass that hoopy Ford Prefect? There's a frood who really knows where his towel is."

(Sass: know, be aware of, meet, have sex with; hoopy: really together guy; frood: really amazingly together guy.)
|I don't know, apathetic bloody planet, I've no sympathy at all.
|The President is always a controversial choice, always an infuriating but fascinating character. His job is not to wield power but to draw attention away from it.
|Oh dear you seem to have fallen down a thirty-foot well, are you alright?
|"If I asked you where the hell we were," said Arthur weakly, "would I regret it?"
Ford stood up. "We're safe," he said.
"Oh good," said Arthur.
"We're in a small galley cabin," said Ford, "in one of the spaceships of the Vogon Constructor Fleet."
"Ah," said Arthur, "this is obviously some strange usage of the word ''safe'' that I wasn't previously aware of."
|Mostly harmless
|"You'd better be prepared for the jump into hyperspace. It's unpleasantly like being drunk."
"What's so unpleasant about being drunk?"
"Ask a glass of water."
|I am now a perfectly safe penguin, and my colleague here is rapidly running out of limbs!
|"You know," said Arthur, "it's at times like this, when I'm trapped in a Vogon airlock with a man from Betelgeuse, and about to die of asphyxiation in deep space that I really wish I'd listened to what my mother told me when I was young."
"Why, what did she tell you?"
"I don't know, I didn't listen."
|"I don’t want to die now! I’ve still got a headache! I don’t want to go to heaven with a headache, I’d be all cross and wouldn’t enjoy it!"
|"Space," it says, "is big. Really big. You just won't believe how vastly, hugely, mindbogglingly big it is. I mean, you may think it's a long way down the road to the chemist, but that's just peanuts to space. Listen..." and so on.
|The fabulously beautiful planet Bethselamin is now so worried about the cumulative erosion by ten billion visiting tourists a year that any net imbalance between the amount you eat and the amount you excrete while on the planet is surgically removed from your body weight when you leave: so every time you go to the lavatory there it is vitally important to get a receipt.
|"Ford," he said, "you're turning into a penguin. Stop it."
|"I think you ought to know I'm feeling very depressed," Marvin said.
|He reached out and pressed an invitingly large red button on a nearby panel. The panel lit up with the words ''Please do not press this button again''.
|"All the doors in this spaceship have a cheerful and sunny disposition. It is their pleasure to open for you, and their satisfaction to close again with the knowledge of a job well done."
|"Come on," he droned, "I've been ordered to take you down to the bridge. Here I am, brain the size of a planet and they ask me to take you down to the bridge. Call that 'job satisfaction?' Cos I don't."
|"Sorry, did I say something wrong?" said Marvin, dragging himself on regardless. "Pardon me for breathing, which I never do anyway so I don't know why I bother to say it, oh God I'm so depressed. Here's another one of those self-satisfied doors. 'Life!' Don't talk to me about life."
|If there's anything more important than my ego around, I want it caught and shot right now.
|'One of the major difficulties Trillian experienced in her relationship with Zaphod was learning to distinguish between him pretending to be stupid just to get people off their guard, pretending to be stupid because he couldn't be bothered to think and wanted someone else to do it for him, pretending to be outrageously stupid to hide the fact that he actually didn't understand what was going on, and really being genuinely stupid.'
|Marvin trudged on down the corridor, still moaning.
"...and then of course I've got this terrible pain in all the diodes down my left hand side..."
"No?" said Arthur grimly as he walked along beside him. "Really?"
"Oh yes," said Marvin, "I mean I've asked for them to be replaced but no one ever listens."
"I can imagine."
|"Funny," he intoned funereally, "how just when you think life can’t possibly get any worse it suddenly does."
|He had found a Nutri-Matic machine which had provided him with a plastic cup filled with a liquid that was almost, but not quite, entirely unlike tea.
|'Oh no, not again.'
|"Life," said Marvin dolefully,
"loathe it or ignore it, you can't like it."
|For instance, on the planet Earth, man had always assumed that he was more intelligent than dolphins because he had achieved so much—the wheel, New York, wars and so on—whilst all the dolphins had ever done was muck about in the water having a good time. But conversely, the dolphins had always believed that they were far more intelligent than man—for precisely the same reasons.
|'So long, and thanks for all the fish.'
|"Forty-two," said Deep Thought, with infinite majesty and calm...
|"The Answer to the Great Question, of Life, the Universe and Everything"
|"I checked it very thoroughly," said the computer, "and that quite definitely is the answer."
|"The chances of finding out what really is going on are so absurdly remote that the only thing to do is to say hang the sense of it and keep yourself occupied... Look at me: I design coastlines. I got an award for Norway."
|"I'd far rather be happy than right any day."
"And are you?"
"No, that's where it all falls down, of course."
"Pity," said Arthur with sympathy. "It sounded like quite a good lifestyle otherwise."
|"Come," said Slartibartfast, "you are to meet the mice."
|"What's up?"
"I don't know," said Marvin, "I've never been there."
|"Simple. I got very bored and depressed, so I went and plugged myself in to its external computer feed. I talked to the computer at great length and explained my view of the Universe to it," said Marvin.
"And what happened?" pressed Ford.
"It committed suicide," said Marvin and stalked off back to the Heart of Gold.
|The History of every major Galactic Civilization tends to pass through three distinct and recognizable phases, those of Survival, Inquiry and Sophistication, otherwise known as the How, Why and Where phases.
For instance, the first phase is characterized by the question 'How can we eat?', 
the second by the question 'Why do we eat?', 
and the third by the question 'Where shall we have lunch?'
|There is a theory which states that if ever anyone discovers exactly what the Universe is for and why it is here, it will instantly disappear and be replaced by something even more bizarre and inexplicable.
There is another theory which states that this has already happened.
|In the beginning the Universe was created.
This has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad move.
|"Share and Enjoy" is the company motto of the hugely successful Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Complaints division, which now covers the major land masses of three medium sized planets and is the only part of the Corporation to have shown a consistent profit in recent years.
|"Go stick your head in a pig"
|There was an accident with a contraceptive and a time machine. Now concentrate!
|Listen, three eyes! Don't you try to outweird me, I get stranger things than you free with my breakfast cereal.
|The Guide is definitive. Reality is frequently inaccurate.
|"Well sir," snapped the fragile little creature, "if you could be a little cool about it..."
"Look," said Zaphod. "I'm up to here with cool, okay? I'm so amazingly cool you could keep a side of meat in me for a month. I'm so hip I have trouble seeing over my pelvis. Now will you move before I blow it?"
|"You are Zaphod Beeblebrox?" the insect squeeked.
"Yeah," said Zaphod, "but don't shout it out or they'll all want one."
"'The' Zaphod Beeblebrox?"
"No, just 'a' Zaphod Beeblebrox; didn't you hear I come in six packs?"
|"Mr. Beeblebrox, sir," said the insect in awed wonder, "you're so weird you should be in movies."
"Yeah," said Zaphod patting the thing on a glittering pink wing, "and you, baby, should be in real life."
|"I'm looking for someone."
"Who?" hissed the insect.
"Zaphod Beeblebrox," said Marvin, "he's over there."
The insect shook with rage. It could hardly speak.
"Then why did you ask ''me''?"
"I just wanted something to talk to," said Marvin.<
"What!"
"Pathetic, isn't it?"
|"So, how are you?" Zaphod said aloud.
"Oh, fine," said Marvin, "if you happen to like being me, which personally I don't."
|"Marvin," he said, "just get this elevator to go up, will you? We've got to get to Zarniwoop."
"Why?" asked Marvin dolefully.
"I don't know," said Zaphod, "but when I find him, he'd better have a very good reason for me wanting to see him."
|If life is going to exist in a Universe of this size, then the one thing it cannot afford to have is a sense of proportion...
|Zaphod had seen the whole universe stretching to infinity around him—everything. And with it had come the clear and extraordinary knowledge that he was the most important thing in it. Having a conceited ego is one thing. Being told by a computer is another.
|"The statistical likelihood," continued the autopilot primly, "is that other civilizations will arise. There will one day be lemon-soaked paper napkins. Till then there will be a short delay. Please return to your seat."
|"Have another drink," said Trillian. "Enjoy yourself."
"Which?" said Arthur. "The two are mutually exclusive."
"Poor Arthur, you're really not cut out for this life are you?"
"You call this life?"
"You're starting to sound like Marvin."
"Marvin is the clearest thinker I know."
|I am the main Dish of the Day. May I interest you in parts of my body?
|"Shee, you guys are so unhip it's a wonder your bums don't fall off." Zaphod
|"Maybe somebody here tipped off the Galactic Police," said Trillian. "Everyone saw you come in."
"You mean they want to arrest me over the phone?" said Zaphod. "Could be. I'm a pretty dangerous dude when I'm cornered."
"Yeah," said the voice from under the table, "you go to pieces so fast people get hit by the shrapnel."
|"But I'm quite used to being humiliated," droned Marvin, "I can even go and stick my head in a bucket of water if you like. Would you like me to go and stick my head in a bucket of water? I've got one ready. Wait a minute."
"Er, hey, Marvin ..." interrupted Zaphod, but it was too late. Sad little clunks and gurgles came up the line.
"What's he saying?" asked Trillian.
"Nothing," said Zaphod, "he just phoned to wash his head at us."
|"The first ten million years were the worst," said Marvin, "and the second ten million years, they were the worst too. "The third ten million years I didn't enjoy at all. After that I went into a bit of a decline."
|"The best conversation I had was over forty million years ago," continued Marvin. ..."And that was with a coffee machine."
|"Amazing-looking ship though. Looks like a fish, moves like a fish, steers like a cow."
|"Well, I wish you'd just tell me rather than try to engage my enthusiasm," said Marvin, "because I haven't got one."
|"You mean," said Arthur, "you mean you can see into my mind?"
"Yes," said Marvin.
Arthur stared in astonishment.
"And ...?" Arthur.
"It amazes me how you can manage to live in anything that small."
"Ah," said Arthur, "abuse."
"Yes," confirmed Marvin.
|It is a well known fact that those people who most 'want' to rule people are, ipso facto, those least suited to do it. To summarise the summary: anyone who is capable of getting themselves made President should on no account be allowed to do the job. To summarise the summary of the summary: people are a problem.
|"How can I tell," said the man, "that the past isn't a fiction designed to account for the discrepancy between my immediate physical sensations and my state of mind?"